PowerAdm - IBM Power/PowerVM Administration tool

Requirements

%!includeconf: inc/config.t2t
%!postproc: SITEROOT .
%!include: inc/menu.t2t

== First == 

	There is no guarantee from the author. Use at your own risk. Check the [License file downloads/license.txt].

== Infrastructure == 

	You need a *nix (Linux or Unix) with Python >= 2.6 <= 3

	To install check the [INSTALL downloads/install] file.

== HMC == 

	Works with HMC 7 and HMC 8

== Environment to create LPAR == 
-------------------------------------------

=== Maximum number of LPARs ===

	You need to determine the maximum number of LPAR in your environment. Try to determine a an amount of memory and CPUs and the number of frames.
	
	For example in my environment I have about 500 LPARs which I think are relatively many.

=== Maximum number of Virtual Adapter on VIOs Servers ===

	On HMC select VIO LPAR: Configuration > Manage Profiles > Virtual Adapters check 'Maximum number of Virtual Adapters'

**The rule:**

	On the primary VIO the Virtual Adapter Maximum Number is: 3+ //"maximum number of LPARs"// On the secundary VIO the Virtual Adapter Maximum Number is: 4+ //"maximum number of LPARs"//.

	Remember the //Maximum number of LPARs// In the example is 500.

**Example:**

- On my First VIO the Maximum number of Virtual Adapter is 3500
- On my Second VIO the Maximum number of Virtual Adapter is 4500


== Validate VIOs Adapter ID ==

	In the VIOs Profile (Configuration > Manager Profiles > Virtual Adapters) check de largest Adapter ID.

=== How the Virtual Adapters in VIO are created by the Power Adm: ===

**The rules are:**

+ 'LPAR ID' to first virtual SCSI on Primary VIO
+ 'LPAR ID' to second virtual SCSI on Second VIO
+ 'LPAR ID' to first virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Primary VIO
+ 'LPAR ID' to second virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Second VIO


**Example:**

	LPAR ID = 30


- 130 to first virtual SCSI on Primary VIO
- 230 to second virtual SCSI on Second VIO
- 330 to first virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Primary VIO
- 430 to second virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Second VIO

**In LPAR configuration is always this:**

- 10 to First virtual Ethernet Adapter
- 11 to Second virtual Ethernet Adapter (if added)
- 12 to Third virtual Ethernet Adapter (if added)
- 21 to First virtual SCSI (if added)
- 22 to Second virtual SCSI (if added)
- 33 to first virtual Fiber Channel/HBA/NPIV (if added)
- 34 to second virtual Fiber CHannel/HBA/NPIV (if added)

	**!! It is important to understand this in order to know how to adjust your environment to support the PowerAdm !!**

	**You will need to manually create a LPAR with ID greater than its largest existing 'Adapter ID'.**

	**If exists in my environment a LPAR with this ID or largest must get the next one.**

	It is easier to understand with an example:

+ On my Primary VIO the largest 'Adapter ID' is 127
+ On my Secound VIO the largest 'Adapter ID' is 110
+ I need to manually create an LPAR with ID 28 with this configuration.
+ If exists in my environment LPARs with IDs 28, 29, 30 will need to use the ID 31
+ Create Manually LPAR with ID 31

After creating the LPAR manually (LPAR ID 31), if I use the 'PowerAdm' to create a new she will get the ID 32.

Its configuration will look like in the VIO:

- 132 to first virtual SCSI on Primary VIO
- 232 to second virtual SCSI on Second VIO
- 332 to first virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Primary VIO
- 432 to second virtual Fiber Channel (HBA) on Second VIO


= Environment to Deploy OS Using a NIM Server = 
------------------------------------------------

== NIM Server ==

	You need a configured and working NIM Server with SUDO installed.

	Check the install procedure on [INSTALL downloads/install] file.

= Using the VMWare vCenter Orchestrator to create LPAR = 
------------------------------------------------

	TIP: The PowerAdm must be configured and running in text mode/ASCII.

+ Login on the VMware vCenter Orchestrator using the vCenter Orchestrator Client
+ Change the view from 'Run' to 'Design'
+ Go to the 'Action'
+ Create folder 'org.poweradm.basic'
+ Left clic on folder 'org.poweradm.basic' and click on 'Import action...'.
+ Select all actions in the vCO folder of PowerAdm package.
 - getVSW
 - getSystemList
 - getAddSSPDisk
 - getNPIV
+ Go to the 'Workflows' folder
+ Create on 'Custom' folder a new folder named 'PowerAdm'
+ Left clic on 'PowerAdm' folder and click on 'Import workflows..'
+ Left click on workflow PowerAdm and click on 'Edit'
+ In General, change the Attribute Values:
 - powerAdmAddres ""[IP address of your server with PowerAdm]""
 - powerAdmUser ""[Username of PowerAdm]""
 - powerAdmPassword ""[Password PowerAdm user]""
 - powerAdmPath ""[path installationz]""

	For more information visit [vCo-forPowerAdm SITEROOT/vcoforpoweradm.html]

== Tips ==

- I need two more virtual Fiber Channel, how to procced?
+ on the Primary VIO create manually 432
+ on the Secound VIO create manually 332

	on the LPAR use free IDs:

- 13,15,16,17,18 and 19 free to manually use for virtual network
- 23..29 free to manually use for virtual scsi adapters
- 33..39 free to manually use for virtual Fiber CHannel/HBA/NPIV

!!! It's great !!!


=== Need help ? ===

send me email: [kairo@eti.br mailto:kairo@kairo.eti.br]

%!include: inc/footer.t2t

